---
title: Installation
---

# Installation

All the actively developed source code of mox is a Python package
located in `oio_rest`. You can run it in
as you see fit. Two methods are described below. Use the docker image or
a Python package in a virtual environment.

!!! Tip
    TL;DR: To get a running development environment with postgres and mox, run: 
    ``` {.bash} 
    git clone https://github.com/magenta-aps/mox.git
    cd mox
    docker-compose up -d --build mox
    # run unittests with
    docker-compose exec mox pytest oio_rest
    ```

### Docker

The repository contains a `Dockerfile`.
This is the recommended way to install mox both as a developer and in
production.

All releases are pushed to Docker Hub at
[magentaaps/mox](https://hub.docker.com/r/magentaaps/mox) under the
`latest` tag. The `dev-latest` tag contains the latest build from the
`development` branch.

To run mox in docker you need a running docker. To install docker we
refer you to the [official
documentation](https://docs.docker.com/install/).

## Database

The container requires a connection to a postgres database. Read
`Database` for a complete description.

Remember if you set the [setting](settings.md) `[database] host = "localhost"` the container will try to
connect to a database in the same container, not the host machine.

You will need to [initialize the database, user and
extensions](database.md)
image contains a few scripts to do this easily. They are designed to
work with the [official postgres docker
image](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres). You can copy the scripts from
the docker image by running:

``` .bash
# To a docker volume named postgres-initdb.d
docker run \
  --rm \
  -v postgres-initdb.d:/postgres-initdb.d \
  --entrypoint="" \
  --user=root \
  magentaaps/mox:latest \
  cp -r /code/docker/postgres-initdb.d/. /postgres-initdb.d

# To a directory named postgres-initdb.d
docker run \
  --rm \
  -v $PWD/postgres-initdb.d:/postgres-initdb.d \
  --entrypoint="" \
  --user=root \
  magentaaps/mox:latest \
  cp -r /code/docker/postgres-initdb.d/. /postgres-initdb.d
```

These scripts can now easily be mounted into the postgres docker image.
They require the environment variables `DB_NAME`, `DB_USER` and
`DB_PASSWORD` to be set. It is also recommended to set
`POSTGRESS_PASSWORD` for the `SUPERUSER` in postgres. To start a
postgres docker image run:

``` bash
docker run \
  -v postgres-initdb.d:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d \
  -e DB_NAME=mox \
  -e DB_USER=mox \
  -e DB_PASSWORD=mox \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mox \
  postgres:11.7
```

The mox docker image will automatically [initialize the database
objects](database.md) for on the first
startup.

### Run the container

When you have initialized the database with [database, user and
extensions](database.md), you can
start a the container with:

``` bash
docker run \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -e DB_HOST=<IP of DB host> \
  -e DB_USER=mox \
  -e DB_PASSWORD=mox \
  magentaaps/mox:latest
```

This will pull the image from Docker Hub and start a container in the
foreground. The `-p 8080:8080` [binds
port](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/#publish-or-expose-port--p---expose)
`8080` of the host machine to port `8080` on the container. The `-e`
[sets the environment
variables](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/#set-environment-variables--e---env---env-file)
in container.

If successful you should see the container initializing database and
finally

``` 
[2019-04-10 08:22:06 +0000] [1] [INFO] Listening at: http://0.0.0.0:8080 (1)
```

when the gunicorn server starts up. You should now be able to reach the
server from the host at `http://localhost:8080`.

For other setting you can set, see [Settings](settings.md).

### Testing

The dependencies for unittest are included in the docker image. For info
on how to run test see [Testing](../dev/test.md) and
[Docker-compose-testing](./installation.md#testing-in-docker-compose).

### Logs

The gunicorn access log is output on `STDOUT` and error log is output on
`STDERR`. They can be inspected with `docker logs`.

### File upload

`/var/mox` is the default
[[file_upload] folder](./settings.md) value.
It is created as an anonymous volume. It can be named if needed.

You can also [bind](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) it,
just make sure the folder on the host system have the owner set to the
same `UID/GID` as the
[user that runs the application](./installation.md) in the `Dockerfile`

### User permissions


The `Dockerfile` creates and runs the
application as the `mox` user. This user will own all the files
generated by the application. This user has a `UID` and `GID` of 72010.


If you want to use another `UID/GID`, you can specify it as the
`--user=uid:gid` [overwrite
flag](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#user) for the
`docker run` command or [in
docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/#domainname-hostname-ipc-mac_address-privileged-read_only-shm_size-stdin_open-tty-user-working_dir).
If you change the `UID/GID`, the `/var/mox` volume may not have the right permissions. It is
recommended to only use
[bind](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) if you overwrite
the user and set the same user as owner of the directory you bind.

## Docker-compose

You can use `docker-compose` to start up mox and postgres.

A `docker-compose.yml` for development is
included. It automatically starts up
[postgres](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres). It sets the environment
variables to connect them.

It also mounts the current directory in the container and automatically
restarts the server on changes. This enables you to edit the files in
`oio_rest` and the server will be
reloaded automatically.

To pull the images and start the three service run:

``` bash
docker-compose up -d --build mox
```

The `-d` flag move the services to the background. You can inspect the
output of them with `docker-compose logs <name>` where `<name>` is the
name of the service in `docker-compose.yml`. The `--build` flag builds the newest docker image for
`oio_rest` from the local `Dockerfile`.

To stop the service again run `docker-compose stop`. This will stop the
services, but the data will persist. To completely remove the containers
and data run `docker-compose down -v`.

The `docker-compose.yml` file contains a
service named `mox-cp`. Its purpose is to copy the files needed to
[initialize the database, user and
extensions](./database.md#database-user-and-extensions-initialization) to a volume.
This volume can then be mounted to the postgres image to automatically
initialize the database. This functionality is not needed by default
because the needed files are mounted directly from the host. It is
included as an example when you want to use an environment closer to
production.

### Testing in docker-compose

The docker-compose development environment is ready run unittests on. To
run all unittest use:

``` bash
docker-compose exec mox pytest oio_rest
```

It contains all the required testing dependencies and permissions
described in [Testing](../dev/test.md). pgTAP is installed
in the database via the
`dev-environment/postgres.Dockerfile` and
the required database user privilegedes are granted via
`dev-environment/postgres-initdb.d/30-upgrade-to-superuser.sh`

## From source

All the relevant code is in a Python package located in
`oio_rest`.

### Prerequisites

The `oio_rest` package requires a few
system dependencies. It requires:

-   `python` \>=3.5
-   `pip` \>=10.0.0
-   `setuptools` \>=39.0.1
-   `wheel`
-   `git` for installing some requirements from
    `requirements.txt` and
-   `libxmlsec1-dev` for the Python package `xmlsec`.

Mox needs to connect to `postgres11.7`. mox can be configured with the
[setting](./settings.md) `[database] host = "localhost"` to connect to any machine. The default
value of [[database] host](./settings.md) is
`"localhost"`.

### Installation

When the prerequisites are met, you can install mox from a clone of the
git repository.

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/magenta-aps/mox.git
cd mox/oio_rest
pip install .
```

### Configuration

Look through the [Settings](./settings.md) and configure
the one you need either as environment variables or as a config file.
The most likely changes are properly to the database host, user and
password.

### Database initialization

!!! todo
    Refer to relavant section in [database](./database.md)
    when it is written in
    [#30317](https://redmine.magenta-aps.dk/issues/30317).


### Run

When the database is initialized you can access the cli with
`python3 -m oio_rest <command>`. To run the development server run
`python3 -m oio_rest run`. Alternatively, use gunicorn to run a server
with `gunicorn oio_rest.app:app`.
